# Bike-Sharing-System-Analysis

### Background

Bike sharing systems are a new generation of traditional bike rentals where the whole process from membership, rental, and return has become automatic. Through these systems, users can easily rent a bike from a position and return to another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which are composed of over 500 thousand bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.
Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of the important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.


### DataSet

Bike-sharing rental process is highly correlated to the environmental and seasonal settings. For instance, weather conditions, precipitation, day of week, season, hour of the day, etc. can affect the rental behaviors. The core data set is related to the two-year historical log corresponding to years 2011 and 2012 from Capital Bikeshare system, Washington D.C., USA which is publicly available in http://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data. We aggregated the data on two hourly and daily basis and then extracted and added the corresponding weather and seasonal information. Weather information are extracted from http://www.freemeteo.com.
